# Image-Classification

This is an image classification model with Deep Learning using tensorflow. This notebook is my first Deep Learning experience following this [tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jztwpsIzEGc). The tutorial uses images of happy and sad people, but I will be using images of objects and see if the model can identify each set of objects.

The data was collected from various search engines, and stored in a file called 'data' where we will separate the images in folders with their corresponding label. We start by setting up our GPU for usage and installing all dependencies. We remove any images that do not have an image extension and resizing all images to a consistent size. Data is preprocessed by scaling it down to make it easier to iterate and then split into training, validation and testing batches. We use a Sequential model and feed it the training batches. The model was successful when identifying two categories using the sigmoid activation function, but when adding more datasets the model's accuracy dropped to about 30%. I gave it more training cycles to see if the model just needed more training but it did not increase in accuracy.

Upon further reviewed I noticed that the pictures I was testing were going in as BGR because of OpenCV, when I had trained my data with RBG. After converting the testing data to RGB the model's classification increased to about 60-70%. When I tried using VGG16 model that had won awards for images classification the accuracy surprisingly dropped to about 30%. Leading me to believe that the model is too big for my datasets since it's only about 250 images per category and the model was made to classify 1000s of categories filled with 1000s of pictures. The recommended amount of images is 1000 per category so after downloading more images and cleaning them up manually my model's accuracy increased to about 90%.
